[DOC] Tutorial for self-supervised learning (#1788)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: docs/source/guide/tutorials/advanced/self_sl.rst

The process has been tested on the following configuration.

- Ubuntu 20.04
- NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090
- Intel(R) Core(TM) i9-10980XE
- CUDA Toolkit 11.7

.. note::

  This example demonstates how to work with :doc:`self-supervised learning for classification <../../explanation/algorithms/classification/multi_class_classification>` and :doc:`self-supervised learning for semantic segmentation <../../explanation/algorithms/segmentation/semantic_segmentation>`.

*************************
Setup virtual environment
*************************

To create a universal virtual environment for OpenVINO™ Training Extensions, please follow the installation process in the :doc:`quick start guide <../../get_started/quick_start_guide/installation>`.

***************************
Multi-class classification
***************************
.. _tutorial_selfsl_classification:

.. note::

  To prepare `flowers dataset <https://www.tensorflow.org/hub/tutorials/image_feature_vector#the_flowers_dataset>`_, refer to :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`.

------------
Pre-training
------------

> 1. We can check which models are provided for this task like the command below. All details are in :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`. We will choose :ref:`MobileNet-V3-large-1x <classificaiton_models>` like :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`.

Reviewer: There are to many refers to classification tutorial. Also, we can omit "otx find --task classification" since it is advanced tutorial . I perfer to just mention here that we can use the same templates and backbones as for original classification for Self-SL task. For that tutorial we will use MobileNet-V3-large-1x as we did in classification tutorial. 
I would rather delete `otx find ` example

Author: Done

    |      TASK      |                         ID                        |          NAME         |                                        PATH                                       |
    +----------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | CLASSIFICATION | Custom_Image_Classification_MobileNet-V3-large-1x | MobileNet-V3-large-1x | otx/algorithms/classification/configs/mobilenet_v3_large_1_cls_incr/template.yaml |
    | CLASSIFICATION |    Custom_Image_Classification_EfficinetNet-B0    |    EfficientNet-B0    |    otx/algorithms/classification/configs/efficientnet_b0_cls_incr/template.yaml   |
    | CLASSIFICATION |   Custom_Image_Classification_EfficientNet-V2-S   |   EfficientNet-V2-S   |   otx/algorithms/classification/configs/efficientnet_v2_s_cls_incr/template.yaml  |
    +----------------+---------------------------------------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

2. Prepare an OpenVINO™ Training Extensions workspace by running the following command:

.. note::

>     Unlike :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`, ``--train-type SELFSUPERVISED`` must be added to get training components for self-supervised learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Unlike in :doc:`classification tutorial <../base/how_to_train/classification>`, ``--train-type SELFSUPERVISED`` must be added to get training components for self-supervised learning.
```
You don't need to name "how to train classification models" strictly, we can name a link how we want

Author: Done

.. code-block::

    (otx) ...$ otx build --train-data-roots data/flower_photos --model MobileNet-V3-large-1x --train-type SELFSUPERVISED

    [*] Workspace Path: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION
    [*] Load Model Template ID: Custom_Image_Classification_MobileNet-V3-large-1x
    [*] Load Model Name: MobileNet-V3-large-1x
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/selfsl/model.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/selfsl/data_pipeline.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/deployment.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/hpo_config.yaml
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/model_hierarchical.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/model_multilabel.py
    [*] Update data configuration file to: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/data.yaml

    (otx) ...$ cd ./otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION

3. To start training we need to call ``otx train`` command in our workspace.

.. note::
    It is recommended to set ``--save-model-to`` to distinguish between pre-trained and fine-tuned weights or not to overwrite them.

.. code-block::

>   (otx) ...$ otx train --save-model-to models/selfsl

Reviewer: Please add expected output for training

Author: Done

The training will return artifacts: ``weights.pth`` and ``label_schema.json`` and we can use this weights to fine-tune the models using target dataset.

-----------
Fine-tuning
-----------

> 1. Update our workspace to enable supervised (incremental) learning, which we actually try to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Next, we need to update our workspace to enable supervised (incremental) learning for further fine-tuning on the obtained  weights after Self-SL pretraining.
```

Author: Done

    [*] Load Model Template ID: Custom_Image_Classification_MobileNet-V3-large-1x
    [*] Load Model Name: MobileNet-V3-large-1x
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/model.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/data_pipeline.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/deployment.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/hpo_config.yaml
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/model_hierarchical.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/model_multilabel.py
    [*]     - Updated: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/compression_config.json
    [*] Found validation data in your dataset in /home/sungchul/workspace/src/training_extensions/dataset/flower_photos. It'll be used as validation data.
    [*] Update data configuration file to: otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION/data.yaml

    (otx) ...$ cd ./otx-workspace-CLASSIFICATION

2. To start training we need to call the below command with adding ``--load-weights`` argument in our workspace.

.. note::
    It is recommended to set ``--save-model-to`` to distinguish between pre-trained and fine-tuned weights or not to overwrite them.

.. code-block::

>   (otx) ...$ otx train --load-weights models/selfsl/weights.pth --save-model-to models/finetune

Reviewer: Same, please add expected output for training

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer: Please, add here example of validation and expected output to show what metric we achieved using Self-SL pretraining

It will be even more useful is we compare two models with and without Self-SL pretraining

Author: Done

> After these progesses, you can validate, optimize, and export the models described in :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtaining new model after training you can proceed with optimization and exporting  as described in :doc:`how to train classification models <../base/how_to_train/classification>`.
```

Author: Done

*********************

> Semantic segmentation

Reviewer: As I can see, the process of training isn't changed compared to classification except different dataset and template. I would rather just wrote few lines about that the Self-SL pretraining for semantic segmentation task is the same,  you just need to change dataset and model template, etc. 

We did the same structure for all common tutorials, we didn't write it for every task

Author: Done
